Feat/databricks tutorial (#1073)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/tutorial/1c-setting-up-databricks.md

    
    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/create_stack.png" title="Capabilities" />
    
10. Afterwards, you should land on the `CloudFormation > Stacks` page. Once the status becomes `CREATE_COMPLETE`, you shall be ready to start. This process can take about 5 minutes so feel free to click on refresh to refresh the status updates. 

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/stack_status.png" title="Confirm Status Completion" />

11. Go back to the Databricks tab. You should see that your workspace is ready to use.

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/workspaces.png" title="A Databricks Workspace" />

12. Now let’s jump into the workspace. Click on `Open` and log into the workspace using the same login as you used to log into the account. 

13. Congrats! You are now ready to start working in the workspace.

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/welcome_page.png" title="Welcome to the Databricks Workspace" />

14. Next up, we will need a cluster for our training. 

Spark cluster is going to be your compution resource for running your analytics workloads. We will be using it to run our queries. 

> Ghosting over the Databricks logo on the left, you will see a left hand side console. Click on `Compute` and you will see the clusters at your disposal. For this tutorial, we will be using the starter cluster that comes with our workspace but you can always create your own. 

Author: ```suggestion
Hovering over the Databricks logo on the left, you will see a left hand side console. Click on `Compute` and you will see the clusters at your disposal. For this tutorial, we will be using the starter cluster that comes with our workspace but you can always create your own. 
```

This guide is under construction

> ## Prerequeistics 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites  
```

Before starting this tutorial, you will need the following:

- Existing Cloud Provider account (AWS, GCP, Azure)
- Permissions to create S3 bucket in said account

## Setting up Databricks 

1. For this tutorial, you are going to need a Databricks account. You can sign up by clicking [Try Databricks](https://databricks.com/) on the Databricks homepage. Fill out the form with your user information. 

>     <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/signup_form.png" title="Sign up for Databricks" />

Reviewer: fix: Pat ran into this as well.  As you collapse the window, there is a certain width where the image bleeds into the right side table of contents.

Author: @coapacetic what is the fix for this?

Author: I keep trying and I can't figure out how to get this image bleed haha

Reviewer: @JKarlavige do you know the quick fix for cleaning up images bleeding into the right hand side of the page?

@patkearns10 you might know the solution here too!

Reviewer 2: @coapacetic I'm thinking a css adjustment may fix this. Do you have the url for the preview of this page? I can't seem to find it within the preview.

Reviewer: here you go! https://deploy-preview-1073--docs-getdbt-com.netlify.app/tutorial/setting-up-databricks

Reviewer 2: @coapacetic added a css commit and the images should now be contained!

Reviewer 3: @JKarlavige we were running into the same issue on a different page, was this a global fix? https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/1062#discussion_r802137469

Reviewer 2: @patkearns10 The fix added here should target any images that are clickable and open in a lightbox. So this will fix this issue globally for all lightbox images. If there are other non-lightbox images experiencing a similar issue elsewhere I can add a separate fix for that.

2. For the purpose of this tutorial, we will be selecting AWS as our cloud provider but if you use Azure or GCP internally, please choose one of them. The setup process will be similar. 

3. Check your email to complete the verification process. 

4. After setting up your password, you will be guided to choose a subscription plan. You will need to select either the `Premium` or `Enterprise` plan to access the SQL Compute functionality, required for using the SQL Endpoint for dbt. We have chosen `Premium` for this tutorial. Click `Continue` after selecting your plan. 

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/choose_plan.png" title="Choose Databricks Plan" />

5. Click on `Get Started` when you come to this below page and then `Confirm` after you validate that you have everything needed.

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/validate_1.png" />
    
    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/validate_2.png" />

6. Now it's time to create your first workspace. 

A Databricks workspace is an environment for accessing all of your Databricks assets. The workspace organizes objects like notebooks, SQL Endpoints, clusters, etc into one place. 

> Provide the name of your workspace and choose the appropriate AWS region and click on `Start Quickstart`. You might get the checkbox of `I have data in S3 that I want to query with Databricks`. You do not need to check this off for the purpose of our tutorial. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Provide the name of your workspace and choose the appropriate AWS region and click on `Start Quickstart`. You might get the checkbox of `I have data in S3 that I want to query with Databricks`. You do not need to check this off for the purpose of this tutorial. 
```
quick-fix: aligning language from our to this to match how it was referenced earlier

>     <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/setup_first_workspace.png" />

Reviewer: note: This is strange 🤔 . This is the only lightbox that is rendering as a code snippet?  Making a note to look at this later

Author: Just fixed this. I don't know why it works but removing the whitespace in from fixes it

7. By clicking on `Start Quickstart`, you will be redirected to AWS and asked to log in if you haven’t already. After logging in, you should see a page similar to this. 

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/quick_create_stack.png" title="Create AWS resources" />

*Tip:* If you get a session error and don’t get redirected to this page, do not worry, go back to the Databricks UI and create a workspace from the interface. All you have to do is click on `create workspaces`, choose the quickstart, fill out the form and click on `Start Quickstart`. 

8. There is no need to change any of the pre-filled out fields in the Parameters. Just add in your Databricks password under `Databricks Account Credentials` 

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/parameters.png" title="Parameters" />
    
9. Check off the Acknowledgement and click `Create stack`.     
    

>     <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/create_stack.png" title="Parameters" />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/create_stack.png" title="Capabilities" />
```

    
10. Afterwards, you should land on the `CloudFormation > Stacks` page. Once the status becomes `CREATE_COMPLETE`, you shall be ready to start. This process can take about 5 minutes so feel free to click on refresh to refresh the status updates. 

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/stack_status.png" title="Confirm Status Completion" />

11. Go back to the Databricks tab. You should see that your workspace is ready to use.

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/workspaces.png" title="A Databricks Workspace" />

12. Now let’s jump into the workspace. Click on `Open` and log into the workspace using the same login as you used to log into the account. 

13. Congrats! You are now ready to start working in the workspace.

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/welcome_page.png" title="Welcome to the Databricks Workspace" />

14. Next up, we will need a cluster for our training. 

Spark cluster is going to be your compution resource for running your analytics workloads. We will be using it to run our queries. 

> Ghosting over the Databricks logo on the left, you will see a left hand side console. Click on `Compute` and you will see the clusters at your disposal. For this tutorial, we will be using the starter cluster that comes with our workspace but you can always create your own. 

Reviewer: question: I haven't seen the word ghosting in this context before, is this the same as hovering??

Author: It is hahaha I'll check it to hovering 😓

Ghosting your pointer over the space under `Actions` of your starter cluster, click on the play button. Confirm that you do want to start up the cluster.'

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/start_cluster.png" title="Start the Cluster" />

If you ever want to edit the cluster in terms of the name of the cluster and resources allocated, you can click on the cluster name and the `Edit` button. Please note that you cannot edit the cluster when it is starting up or running. 

## Loading sample data into Databricks

> Before we get started on the tutorial, we will need some data to transform. Luckily for us, Databricks makes it really easy for us to upload data. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our next step is to load some data to transform. Luckily for us, Databricks makes it really easy for us to upload data. 
```
quick-fix: To have this fit in the context of the GS Tutorial AND dbt Fundamentals, I'm suggesting a tweak to the framing on the intro to this section.

> 1. Download the following csv files locally that you will need for this tutorial. You can find them here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download the three csv files locally that you will need for this tutorial. You can find them here:
```
quick-fix: tweaking language

- [Jaffle Shop Orders](http://dbt-tutorial-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/jaffle_shop_orders.csv)

- [Jaffle Shop Customers](http://dbt-tutorial-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/jaffle_shop_customers.csv)

> - [Stripe Payments](http://dbt-tutorial-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/stripe_payments.csv)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [jaffle_shop_customers.csv](http://dbt-tutorial-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/jaffle_shop_customers.csv)
- [jaffle_shop_orders.csv](http://dbt-tutorial-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/jaffle_shop_orders.csv)
- [stripe_payments.csv](http://dbt-tutorial-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/stripe_payments.csv)
```
suggestion: removing whitespace to make this feel more concise and match other bullets in the tutorial.  Also tweaking the name of the link to match the file name and putting these in the same order that we have the learner upload them.

    
4. Now let's upload our first csv. Drag and drop the `jaffle_shop_customers.csv` file into the UI. 

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/create_new_table.png" title="Upload csv file" />

5. Click on `Create Table with UI` and then select your cluster from the dropdown of available clusters. Click `Preview Table`.

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/select_cluster_to_preview_table.png" title="Select Cluster to Preview Table" />

6. Update the Table Attributes:
- Change the table name to `jaffle_shop_customers`
- Check off the `First row is header`. 
- Check off `Infer schema`
- Click on `Create Table` when you are done.

7. Congrats you have successfully uploaded your first table! 

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/new_table_created.png" title="Jaffle Shop Customers table" />
    
8. Now let’s do the same for `Jaffle Shop Orders` and `Stripe Payments` by clicking on the Data tab on the left hand console. The end result will be three tables in the default database. While updating the table attributes, follow the same directions as in Step 6 with the following renaming:

- Stripe Payments = `stripe_payments` 

> - Jaffle Shop Orders = `jaffle_shop_orders`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. Now let’s do the same for `Jaffle Shop Orders` and `Stripe Payments` by clicking on the Data tab on the left hand console. The end result will be three tables in the default database. While updating the table attributes, follow the same directions as in Step 6.
```
suggestion: changed up the naming above and making a cascading change here.

    <Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/raw_tables_created.png" title="Raw Data Tables" />

## Enable a SQL endpoint for Databricks

For dbt to connect to the most optimized SQL experience in Databricks, we need to create an SQL Endpoint for our connection.

> 1. Up to this point, we have been working in the Data Science & Engineering space. Now we need to change over to SQL.  Find the drop down menu and toggle into the SQL space.

Reviewer: praise: excellent context setting here!

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/go_to_sql.png" title="SQL space" />

2. We will be setting up a SQL endpoint now.  Select `SQL Endpoints` from the left hand side console.  You will see that a default SQL Endpoint exists.  

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/sql_endpoints.png" title="SQL Endpoints" />

3. Click `Start` on the Starter Endpoint.  This will take a few minutes to get the necessary resources spun up.

4. Once that's done, let’s ensure that we can query the training data that we loaded earlier.  Navigate back to the SQL space through the left hand menu and choose `SQL Editor`.  This will bring you to a query editor.

5. Ensure that you can run a select * from each of the tables with the following code snippets. 

```sql
select * from default.jaffle_shop_customers
```

```sql
select * from default.jaffle_shop_orders
```

```sql
select * from stripe.payments
```

> 

Reviewer: suggestion: I don't know how the formatting will change if we removed the whitespace between these.  I'm torn here.  We can make them separate snippets to make them distinct or rely on one code block and assume the learner knows that they are separate - what you do you think?

Author: I can remove the whitespaces; it was just easier for me to write code wish. We want to keep them as separate snippets because I couldn't figure out how to get the Databricks UI to run just one query if 3 are in the window. So I want to really emphasize that these should be run separately (and not use the `;` as a hint).

Reviewer: that works! so overall one code block, with 1 line of space between the each `select *`.  Sounds good!

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/query_check.png" title="Query Check" />

6. To get setup in dbt Cloud, you will now need to get the SQL Endpoint connection information and generate a user token. 

You can find your SQL endpoint connection information by going to the `Databricks UI > SQL > SQL Endpoints > Starter Endpoint > Connection details`. Save this information or keep this window open for the next section.

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/SQL_Endpoint_Details.png" title="Databrick SQL Endpoint Connection Information" />

7. To generate a user token for your development credentials in dbt Cloud, click on `Settings` on the left side console (while still in the SQL part of the workspace). Click on `Personal Access Token` and provide a comment like `dbt Cloud development`. Save the token information somewhere because you will need it for the next part. 

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/Generate_user_token.png" title="Generate User Token" />

Congratulations! At this point, you have created a Databricks account, loaded training data, and successfully set up a SQL end point to query the data.  

> ## Set up a project to connect dbt Cloud to Databricks

Reviewer: note for breaking changes: I made the same comment on Pat's PR.  This content is solid, but we should make sure the rest of the GS tutorial is smooth and we don't repeat ourselves.

Author: GS tutorial?

Reviewer: GS Tutorial = Getting Started Tutorial.  Since this is nested in the GS tutorial, we likely want to update the Set up project part of the overall tutorial. 
<img width="309" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10554338/152820588-641954ea-e855-4e47-9112-04ba821abd68.png">

Author: Are we not planning to remove the Setting up page?

Author: I think it makes more sense as a landing page/overview rather than with actual instructions

Reviewer: correction to my original response Create* a project.

The final section of the three WH set up guides covers the same thing as Create a project / dbt Cloud. So I'm just making a note that we need to tweak things so this moves smoothly into Build your first models.

Author: Ah cool beans!

Author: Is there any action needed or should I resolve this comment?

Reviewer: nope! good to go and we will handle on the final merge to prod.

Now it’s time to connect to dbt Cloud to Databricks in order to develop your dbt Project. 

If you don't have an existing dbt Cloud account, you can [sign up for a dbt Cloud trial account here](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/). If you already have a dbt Cloud account, you can create a new project in your existing account.  In this tutorial, we will be using the Set Up project workflow for new users.  This can easily be adapted for additional projects to an existing account.

1. Log into dbt Cloud in a new window. Once you have logged into your new account and validated your email, you will see our Project Setup Flow with the page Set up “Analytics”.  Click `Continue`. 

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/setup_flow_dbt_cloud.png" title="dbt Cloud Set Up Flow" />

2. Choose `Databricks` on the Set Up a Database Connection page. 

<Lightbox src="/img/databricks_tutorial/images/setup_database_connection.png" title="Databrick Connection" />

3. Configure your connection to Databricks this way: 

    a. For the name, write `Databricks` or another simple title.
    

>     b. For Databricks settings, reference your SQL endpoint connection details from part 6 of the previous section for each of the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    b. For Databricks settings, reference your SQL endpoint connection details from step 6 of the previous section for each of the following fields:
```
quick tweak: changing to step instead of part

    
    <ul>
        <li> Method will be ODBC</li>
        <li> Hostname comes from Server hostname</li>
        <li> Endpoint comes from the last part of HTTP path after `/endpoints`</li>

>      </ul>

Reviewer: question: I see you are using HTML here, is that because normal `-` weren't being nested under step 3b?

Author: yes, that's correct. I wasn't able to get it to nest correctly so I switched over per the markdown docs I found
